# DivFree-VectorNoise
This repository contains shaders and Python code that demonstrates methods from the paper "Improving Curl Noise" which is available here: https://doi.org/10.1145/3757377.3763980

In the paper we show that nD divergence-free vector noise can be generated by computing the cross product of n-1 gradients of scalar noise functions. This was known already in 3D, but in our paper we demonstrate that it generalizes to nD since the cross product does. The paper includes a proof that the resulting vector fields are in fact divergence free.

A distinct benefit of our method is that the streamlines of our divergence-free vector noise are simply the intersections of iso-contours of the original scalar noise functions. Thanks to this property it is possible to _reproject_ a point transported along the vector field back onto the precise streamline -- largely decoupling the precision with which the streamline is followed from the precision of the integration scheme.

## Shaders

The `.glsl` files in the `Shaders` directory are meant to be run in ShaderToy.

- `image_warping.glsl` produces the warped 2D images in Figure 5. This shader can also be accessed on ShaderToy: https://www.shadertoy.com/view/dl3cRf .
- `shader_2d_1d.glsl` This demonstrates curl noise within an area progressively constrained to follow the boundary curve.
- `shader_3d_2d.glsl` This demonstrates curl noise within a volume, progressively constrained to follow the enclosing surface.
- `shader_marble.glsl` produces the warped 2D images in Figure 5. This version is from the original supplementary material and does not have the AA option. 
- `shader_torus.glsl`  This demonstrates curl noise along a torus surface, obtained as the cross product of a solid noise gradient and the gradient of the torus distance field.

## Python and Blender files

In the `PySrc` directory you will find a collection of Python files and a blender file (for Blender 5.0.0). If you open the Blender file (`streamlines.blend`) you should see two collections of stream lines (streamline_reproject_False and streamline_reproject_True) in the object hierarchy. The object names indicate whether our **reprojection** scheme was applied. When reproject is false the streamlines do not close up and when it is true many of the streamlines do close up. The streamlines are always closed, but since we only trace a finite length, the segment that is traced may not come full circle.

You can compute the streamlines yourself by loading and running the script `streamlines.py` from within Blender. The script requires `scipy` and should install it on its own. In line 19 you need to set the path to the `PySrc` directory before running otherwise key python files are not available. In line 32 you indicate whether to do reprojection. Other parameters are also available for tuning. Feel free to experiment.

# Authors

_Andreas Bærentzen, Jonas Martinez, Jeppe R. Frisvad, Sylvain Lefebvre_
